How creepy.
Yeah.
I hate it.
Haikyu!!
Episode 3: Perspective
I'm not on the court.
I'm not anyone on that court.
I can't just chase after the ball.
I need to put more of my all into it.
I forgot that I left the jerseys
in the washing machine!
Oh, crap!
I'll go hang them up!
Okay, thanks!
Third set!
Bring it!
Wakatoshi!
It didn't go up, but he
at least reacted to it.
Don't worry about it!
I basically brace for
impact and get all stiff,
thinking the spike is about to come.
Left! Left!
Moving in sync with the blockers.
Guys who are really good are able
to tell where the ball is gonna go
just from reading the spiker's form.
For example, Nekoma's Morisuke-kun
or our Daichi-san.
The spiker's form...
Nice kill!
Wakatoshi!
So cool!
It's hard to describe. It's like he
doesn't make any unnecessary movements.
But even if I was able to move like that,
my reach wouldn't be enough.
All right!
Come to think of it, I don't usually
get to watch Noya-san from behind.
During a game, during practice, or
even when I'm watching games on TV,
all I ever watch is the ball.
Semi Semi, better get that service ace!
Why are you calling me Semi Semi? Stop it!
That's the guy who was really
good at serving at the finals.
Here comes an intense serve!
Nice receive!
Wait...
What's that called again?
Get one more, Semi Semi!
It's inside!
Damn it!
Thanks!
It's just a tiny little move...
Tama-yan, practice passing with me!
What? Again?
Then help me practice first.
I already planned to!
Here I go!
Hit it back! You suck!
You're not gonna take it easy on me?
You have really good reflexes, Hinata...
Sometimes you even
hit the ball back decently.
Just sometimes.
But when I think about the fact
that I'm about to hit the ball,
I put up my guard and can't move.
In that case, take your feet
off the ground.
That's a basic move in tennis.
Nice serve!
Thanks!
What was it? What else did Tama-yan say?
Nice serve!
Want me to show you how to smash?
Whoo! A smash?!
No, wait. That wasn't it!
I wanted to do anything to
stand out even more back then!
Ugh, I'm such an idiot!
It was spa... s-strap...? Spl...
Splatter step?!
No, split step!
Don't make it sound gross!
Split step!
The moment the other guy makes
contact with the ball...
By picking up both feet from the
ground, you reset your form.
Then you use the impact of
your feet on the ground
to propel yourself into your first step!
Damn it!
That guess guy moves super fast to block.
Now that I think about it, he's
completely different from Tsukishima.
Whoa!
That's a crappy place to hit the ball back!
When did he even look at
their side of the court?
He doesn't seem to be taking an extra step.
Then there's more than
one way to receive well.
Up until now, I've only
been chasing the ball.
But the court is so full of information.
Thank you very much!
Thank you!
See ya, Tsutomu. We'll be back.
Yes, sir!
I guess we're gonna start
spending the night today.
Man, even the washing machines
are great at Shiratorizawa!
Really?
By the way, Shoyo, aren't you cold
wearing just a T-shirt?
I'll put a track jacket on in a second.
In a second?
Just so you know,
there's no food or lodging for
someone that wasn't invited.
Y-Yes, sir!
We do have places
he can sleep, though.
This camp has fewer people than most
and everyone sleeps in
one big room together.
Hinata Shoyo came here to create
a chance he wasn't given.
Whether or not that was successful...
The fact is that he wasn't
chosen to be here.
And something similar is probably
going to happen again.
Shiratorizawa
Academy
I see.
Come on!
Help me practice a bit!
No thanks.
You're asking the wrong people.
I don't mind practicing with you.
Kindaichi!
Are you doing some extra practice?!
I'll pick up those balls for you.
S-Sure...
Heck yeah!
You're not gonna hit any?
You're not gonna practice with us?
Why would I?
Show me those super-straight
line shots of yours!
The ones that get past blockers who
are sure they stopped the shot!
Like, whack!
How the heck do you even do that?!
Wh-When was the last time I felt like this?
This feeling I'd forgotten
because I'm surrounded by cold
or completely unreadable senpai!
This feeling of being praised and adored!
You're so amazing, Tsutomu.
You're so tall, Goshiki-kun!
You're our ace, Goshiki!
Y-You just need me to do line shots?
Maybe some cross shots, too!
Damn, he's a pushover.
Also... Don't go underestimating
what it takes to be a ball boy.
First, my position.
Nagamatsu's blocking over there,
so that narrows down where
the spiker can hit the ball.
I'm gonna get my hand on the ball.
How fast will I be able to get to
where the ball is going to land?
I need to keep my eyes on the
spiker, and then split step—
How crappy is my timing?!
Jumping's not the goal here.
I need to keep my body flat...
Too slow!
Way too slow!
Left!
Goshiki?!
Will he shoot one of his
super-straight line shots?!
No, wait...
This is probably going to be...
A cross shot.
My hands were full...
But I was right about
where it was going!
There was a blocker in the way for a line
shot, and the set was a bit short.
He can't shoot as close to the
antenna as he usually can!
It's easier for me to hit if you can get the
ball as close to the antenna as possible.
Roger!
There are times you can tell where the
ball will go from the set, too!
I'm just gonna have to hold
out until I get home...
I just couldn't wait yesterday
and ate a hamburger...
I wonder what the food is like
at a powerhouse school.
Hopefully Tsukishima actually ate something.
He likes to leave some food whenever
our senpais aren't watching.
To get home, I take a bus,
then a one-hour train ride,
then a thirty-minute bike ride.
Your muscles are at their limits,
so you've got to repair them by eating.
That's how you build muscle,
and become stronger.
So eat. Eat a proper meal.
My muscles definitely want
to be repaired right now.
Usually, I'd be able to head straight home
and dinner would be waiting for me,
so I never really had to think about it.
What should I eat?
One sec.
Hey, what's up?
Coach, what should I eat?
Wha?
Oh...
Wait, I'm sorry. Is it
okay that I ask you that?
Who the heck else would you ask?
First, you should be drinking a
sports drink with amino acids...
But you probably already are.
Oh, right. Uh, one sec!
You'll need some protein, too.
Even convenience stores
have protein drinks now.
What you'll also need is carbs.
Something like a banana
or 100% orange juice.
And then...
...get home and eat a proper meal!
Also, make sure you get some sleep.
Right! Thanks!
Right, then.
My brand-new travel toothbrush set.
I won't be able to use you just yet.
Just wait a tiny bit longer.
Haikyu!!
Tokonami                    Karasuno
It doesn't matter if this
is our usual gymnasium,
Shinzen's gymnasium, or Tokyo Stadium.
You need to train your body to be able
to do the same thing at any location.
Out!
Nice serve!
Sorry!
Got it!
Nishinoya!
Sorry!
Don't worry about it!
Tanaka...
His little routine he does
now that he does jump serves
is somehow stupidly cool.
Though he still has to work on
getting the ball over the net...
Tokonami                              Karasuno
Hell yeah! We managed to
win a set against Karasuno!
We can go to nationals now!
One lap of diving drills!
Right!
Wait, they actually have penalties?
Oh, we just do this all the time.
After getting so used to losing
at the Tokyo training camp,
I get the urge to do
these even when we win...
Right?
Yeah, we sorta messed up
the serves this set.
May we play another set?!
O-Of course.
The set is a bit high...
So...
He won't be able to hit it straight down!
Damn it! I was totally right, too.
His movements are completely
different from the first day.
It was too high. My bad.
I'm sure he's got extremely good
natural athletic abilities,
and before, his movements
tended to rely on instinct.
It was still in. Nice kill.
But now, he's considering his movements.
Even though he's a bit clumsy right now,
as he builds more more experience
Bring it!
his thinking will start to
merge with his instincts,
and transform into intuition.
Shiratorizawa
Academy
Not to mention, when he was blocking
in the game against Shiratorizawa,
it seemed like he didn't
even know the basics.
It seemed more like he was trying to find
what worked best for him.
Nice kill!
Because he's so empty that
there's no unnecessary filler.
Wait, wait. "Empty" was
probably a bit too harsh...
Sorry about that, Hinata-kun.
Whoa!
Once you're playing in an actual match,
everything's more frantic,
and you don't know who's gonna
hit until the very last second.
That part's different from tennis.
Not to mention, guys tend
to hit the ball really fast.
So is there really time to
incorporate the split step?
Break time!
Yes, sir!
I'm obviously moving around way
less than normal practices,
but all this thinking is
making me hungry, too.
Well? Are the monster
children still working hard?
Shiratorizawa
Academy
Monster?
They totally seem like monsters!
Karansuno's #9 and #10, I mean.
We...
eat humans...
True.
I mean, you're basically a monster
yourself, Wakatoshi-kun.
I wonder if he'd get mad if I asked
if he was worried about his brethren.
Here are your drinks!
Thanks.
Here!
Why are you like that?
Like what?
You always seem so desperate.
Well, I decided I was gonna
defeat Kageyama, so...
But right now... He's All-Japan...
I figured he was over there.
I mean, he's amazing, too,
but he might be getting
his ass whooped right now.
Oh?
Thanks!
Whoa, there!
I can hit it!
Nice save!
Crap.
Ah, well. This is still the first set.
Sorry. Force of habit.
A set that basically said,
"Of course you're this far into
your approach already, right?"
Nice!
Time for more spiking drills!
Yes, sir!
I'll go on this side!
O-Okay...
He seems way too excited to be ball boy.
He kept getting them last night, too.
Seriously?!
He's...
...acting like he's the only one
in the middle of a game right now.
Ugh, I hate this.
I always feel like I need to do
something whenever I see him.
I need to smoothly read the next move,
too... Not just when I get the ball.
I'm going to be receiving this spike...
I'm a receiver who's been tasked
with defending a part of the court!
You dumbass...
I-I actually feel bad about that...
I keep telling you to
keep your damn eyes open!
Yes, sir!
Hey.
Yeah?
Come with me for a sec.
Episode 4: "Take It Easy"
Next time, "'Take It Easy.'"